# Making Dog Shampoo

When making dog shampoo, there are three basic phases, mixing, bottling, and shipping. 

In mixing, you will need to create the product in a container large enough to fill as many bottles as you will need. Acidity levels are highly important in shampoo products so you will want to keep an eye on how much alcohol you add to subvert the more soapy chemicals. In a sense, you can add whatever chemicals that will create the best aroma without being toxic or nonpolar. Regardless, the shampoo will need a base, or solvent, which usually comes in the form of water. 

Next, you'll need to buy some bottling equipment or get used to filling the bottle by hand. At this point, you should check the Ph or acidity of the product from the mixing phase to make sure it turned out alright. If the test is positive, it is time to send the product down the bottling line. Most machines will be able to fill the bottles, seal, cap, and label them, but if yours doesn't then you will need to. Some caps are perferated and, if this is the case, gloves and plyers are helpful. However, the plyers need to have a cushioned grip so they don't scratch the cap. Labellers often need to be calibrated in order to function properly, and the mechanic should be wary of the blade in the machine that cuts the labels. Finally, the product, if complete, will come out on a spinning table, adjacent to the box taper. You will need to transfer it into a box and push it down the taper machine. Often times, the tape on the bottom or top of the box, refuses to break off, leaving the box stuck to the taper. If this is the case, try examining the blades for tape stuck to it. Often times, pieces of tape get stuck to the blades which quickly dulls the blade. If all goes as planned though, the box will be taped properly and role down onto a line. From that line, you will need to transfer it to a skid and wrap the product in ceran wrao.
